---
layout: post
title: "Perspective"
date: 2019-12-01
---

## Intro
Hello everybody. I hope you all enjoyed a nice Thanksgiving this year and
took advantage of your holiday break! This week I'll be talking about
reflection and how mindset affects performance.

## The Limitations of Reflection
For anyone who's been following my performance lately, it hasn't been too hot.
The problems I missed during the last contest were ones that were within my
solving abilities, but I failed to solve them when it mattered most. Now a
normal person here would be like, "I'm sure it's just nerves or luck, so I'll
just enjoy my holiday break with my family". At least that's what I'm assuming.
But no, no, no, me from 4 days in the past decided that there was a better
alternative to time off.  Instead, I'd do 1-2 Virtual Contests every day and
figure out if it was truly nerves or bad luck causing poor performance. TL;DR
No. 

### Day 1
So far, so good or at least no so bad. I only solved AB of a Div3 because I
forgot to return 0 after printing a solution in C which led to 90 minutes of
frustration. Estimated rating delta of -60, but it can only go up from here right?

### Day 2
Hey lets go, only a -1 delta and this time I solved ABC so clearly without too
much trouble. That **MUST** mean that the first virtual contest performance was
just bad luck.

### Days 3, 4, & 5
Someone please send help.

At the end of the 5 days of contests, I had a wall of negative deltas in my
spreadsheet and a deflated ego.

![Great Wall of Red](/assets/the_great_red_wall.png){: .center-image }

Time and time again, I was getting slow solves on easy problems and failing to
solve tougher problems. The reflections I wrote after each contest seemed to
place my failure on just about every aspect of my abilities you could imagine,
yet the underlying cause still eluded me. That is until help came in the form of
a CodeForces message. One of my readers who I'll call VwbJmvY (I've encrypted
his name for privacy), reached out and said he'd be willing to help me on my
quest to achieve world domination along with 2000 CF in a year. It took him 10
minutes to figure out what I couldn't figure out in 5 days: I needed to slow
down and work through problems before implementation. In retrospect, it seems
glaringly obvious that attempting to think through the problem while
implementing, for me personally, was leading to wrong ideas along with a lot of
wasted time trying to implement those bad ideas; but without a second pair of
eyes, I might never have found this error.  I've learned it's really important
to get help and a fresh perspective when you're stuck on a problem that you
**really can't figure out.** Emphasis on the bold part of that sentence.  It's
always important that you attempt to solve problems by yourself and only ask for
help when you've truly ran out of ideas.  Without investing the upfront cost of
trying to solve the problem yourself, the return you get will be severly
diminished. After this one simple change in how I approach problems during
contests, my next virtual contest also became first postive delta.
 
![No Longer All Red](/assets/first_green.png){: .center-image }

## Mindset Shift
My new mentor, VwbJmvY, has also helped me change the way I think during
contests and my view on success. During the first two contests I partook in,
rating was at the forefront of my mind. This led to a lot of rushed and half
thought out attempts to try and submit as fast as possible. Not only did this
serve me more penalties and WAs, the nervousness also rendered me incapable of
working through the tougher problems. Combine these two factors together and you
get a Plasma that is a complete and utter brick. Doing all these practice
contests also shattered my assumption that latter problems are always harder
than earlier problems.  Seeing as we all have areas where we're stronger in, the
steady curve of difficulty won't always hold true. Just taking a quick read of
the next problem and realizing it's easier for you could mean the difference
between a positive and negative delta.

## Training Changes
As you might've noticed, I've switched to using Google Spreadsheets instead of a
physical notebook. As beneficial as physically writing out reflections are,
having it all online is insanely convenient and also helped me organize my
practice. I'll be doing a more in-depth coverage of this soon so stay tuned!

## Conclusion
Thanks again for reading! If you have any feedback on the more casual tone or
anything about the blog, I'd love to hear it :) As always, I hope you guys
enjoyed this week's post and learned something new. See you again next week!
