---
layout: post
title: "The Metrics of Success"
description: Pros and cons of different metrics of improvement within competitive programming.
date: 2020-06-13
comments: true
---

## The Metrics of Success 

Be it through hours practiced or comparisons to a fellow competitor, we're
always trying to find some metric to quantify our growth. Today I'm going to be
discussing the pros and cons of the two most common metrics in competitive
programming alongside my own metric, which has helped me increase the quality of
my practice.

## Rating

Out of any metric you could use to measure your improvement, rating is one of
the worst because it's completely out of your control. You don't control the
problems in the contest. You don't control whether it's going to be speed
oriented or math-heavy. With such a large assortment of independent variables,
it's impossible to get an accurate, holistic reflection of your skills and
growth. On top of it all, focusing on the result rather than the process means
if your rating experiences a plateau or slump, your motivation will follow suit.
Pros: None.

## Problems Solved

Problems solved is an improvement from rating, but it still poses two problems.

Since your success is based solely on the quantity of solves, it becomes
enticing to just solve easy problems. I'm sure you understand that isn't an
efficient way to improve, but it's easy to fool yourself into thinking that it
is when each problem, no matter the difficulty, contributes an equal amount to
the metric.

Once you get past the hurdle of avoiding easy problems, there lies yet another
obstacle. As humans, out brains are exquisitely terrible at evaluating long term
benefits.  We understand that eating fast food is bad for us in the long run,
but it feels good **now** so we do it regardless. This same sort of problem
manifests in competitive programming as editorials. Although editorials are
helpful and teach new concepts, they're also sirens who beckon for you to give
up well before you really should. Having the pressure of increasing your solve
count only amplifies their song and makes the probability of checking the
editorial before you've fully exhausted all your ideas increase.

Unlike rating however, "Problems Solved" is a metric that's salvageable. The
temptation to solve easy problems for instant gratification can be stifled by
setting a lower bound for the difficulty of your practice. I don't have a
solution to editorials except using an online judge without editorials or just
doing your best to resist the temptation.

## 4 Hours

After doing reading on how experts work, it seems the upper bound on the amount
of time spent deeply thinking per day is roughly 4 hours. (If you're interested
in doing more reading on the topic, I've listed some books below) I've adopted
this as a guideline that if I can manage to practice for 4 hours a day, no
matter how many problems I solve, that's a successful day. Although this metric
has the same benefits and weaknesses as using "Problems Solved", the weaknesses
are far less pronouned since there's no benefit to doing easier problems or
rushing to an editorial.

### Books
- Deep Work by Cal Newport
- Rest by Alex Soojung-Kim Pang

## Outro

I'm sure that the metric I use is far from perfect, but it's good enough. The
point of introducing these performance measurements isn't to chase perfection,
but to find a way to motivate yourself to practice while continuously improving.
If you have some other technique or variation of these three, I'd love to hear
about it in the comments below, and as always, thanks for reading. (If you enjoy
my blog and would like to get notified of future posts, you can join [here](https://discord.gg/KuQ89ks))

