---
layout: post
title: "Comprensive Guide sort of "
description: Some tried and tested tips on how to perform better during CodeForce contests.
date: 2020-07-20
permalink: comprehensive-guide
---

Prerequisite: A text editor setup for your chosen language. 

>Struggling to choose an editor/language because you're looking for the perfect combo? 

Text editors don't matter for all I care, you could use Notepad++ and still do
great.  Language choice is usually between Java and C++ (or Python if you're
masochistic), but it's generally recommended to use C++ for faster, shorter
code. Now let's get on with the show[^1]

## Intro

I'm not the first, and I'm sure I wont be the last to write a guide to
competitive programming, but it felt like I was in a unique position to write
about this. (sounds pretentious unless you explain) I've slowly wrote bits of
this over my journey and hopefully it can provide some insights on you can also
hit 2000.

## What Not To Do

Everyone focuses on what you should do, but I think highlighting the negatives
is just as important.

## Shiny, Shiny
It seems like every other week there's a new website or tool that's supposed to
streamline your practice or contest experience, but I'd argue to get rid of it
all.

## Template

Why. I see beginners with templates that are larger than () and sometimes they
don't even understand all the code in it. Just delete it. Now I know, I know
making you type the same header over and over again is repetitive and stupid,
but it also shows you WHY people even use templates in the first place. Without
typing the same 

(Is this really needed?)

## Don't Learn Topics

## Psuedo-Knowledge
You feel great. After watching videos or reading guides on a topic, it feels as
if you could conquer any problem in the world with that subject with the only
impedement between you and completely domination being Lady Time. Except you
missed one somewhat crucial fact, you don't have any knowledge yet. I'm not
arguing that these mediums are bad persay, but rather that they're __passive__.
To make going over the knowledge memorable, I like writing questions down for
myself. 

include picture

Taking time to truly understand one topic will reap far more benefits than glazing
over tens of them do. (something about foundations)

## How To Practice

It'd be utterly moronic for me to sit here and preach about how my style of
practice is the only way to practice when there are dozens of blogs on how
people far more accomplished than me practice, so here's just a general
consensus. Generally there's an arbitrary time limit (usually 30m) after you run
out of ideas is when you should check the editorial. (make point about how even
people who say they check editorial quickly STILL assimilate the knowledge
painstakingly) Everyone (including me) is just going to sell you whatever method
worked for THEM, which is 100% not some universal way to practice. Use whatever
online judge you want, practice how long you want, use editorials if you want.
The **ONLY** universal rule is that if it isn't working, figure out why and
change something.

> LInk um_nik photo TODO Caption: as I learned

You might be thinking, well this is the most useless guide I've ever read. Fair.
If you do feel as if my nebulous advice is more <something> than liberating,
feel free to take a look at this, or this, or this.

## Find A Friend

Most people recommend some arbitrary time to check the editorial, but I tend to
disagree with that model. You learn far more from struggling for an extended
period of time and are able to understand your flaws more clearly over when you
check the editorial. The main counterargument to this what if you don't know the
underlying topic and you're just wasting time, and while I don't personally
think time spent thinking is wasted, it could definitely be more ineffective. To
counter this, you should find a someone who's stronger than you and understands
what topics you know to tell you if a problem has a new topic.

Disclaimer: Your friends are doing you a fever, so don't pester them too much.
I'm not responsible for any damanges caused by using technique haphazardly.

## Sleep Is OP

In a society that's chronically sleep deprived, I don't think it's too redundant
to state the "obvious". Solving problems is tough and sometimes you simply won't
be able to finish in one session. I find that taking walks or trying problems
the next day helps my subconcious work through what my concious mind couldn't
and simply recharge to think deeply about said problem. It might seem like a
waste of time not just to move onto another problem, but much like learning
concepts, I believe working putting your full efforts into a single problem over
a prolonged time span can reap longstanding benefits. (Maybe anecdotal or
something here, also prolonged sounds kind of daunting)

## Extrenal Resources
### Youtube
errictho,  algorithms live & dead, 

## Websites
cp algo
edu on CF 

[^1] Please don't use repl.it, that's the one exception.
