## Hope Programming

Ad-hoc seems like one of the most polarizing topics in CP, you either hate it or
love it. 

In chess there's an idea of playing "Hope Chess": making a move and not
calculating your opponent's responses. The somewhat parallel behavior in
competitive programming would be "Proof by AC" where you send in a solution
without proving its validity. Although this might come thr

While this
analogy isn't perfecly applicable to competitive programming since it's not a
one-on-one competition, each problem still poses questions in a similar vein.

I realize this
analogy doesn't smoothly apply to competitive programming since there's no
opponent, 

Although you
don't have one-on-one competition against a physical opponent in competitive
programming, each problem posts (poses) similar questions (challenges) as a
biological  for you to answer,. If this I do this, what awill happen? Does this
violate some part o fthe constraints/

## Ad-Hoc & Casework

The bane of every competitive programmer. How dare problemsetters turn us into
machines that just seek out edge cases instead of giving us problems with
elegant solutions?

## You Perform How You Practice (Enahnced Reflection)

The thrill of getting a solution accepted without proving it is amazing, it
feels like you've beat the system; when in reality, you're only losing. (bad)
How you compete is a reflection of your practice, so it makes sense to
(something about how it might make sense to proof by AC in practice, when it's
really just a bad practice)

It's obvious that your long term performance in contests is a reflection of your
practice, but I feel as if most people aren't practicing correctly. 

## Perfectian

I'm not perfect. If you take a look at my solves, in the Global Round 8(09),  I
solved C 3 minutes before the end of the contest with half a million WAs, and
those were all just hopeful shot in the dark guesses that really had no
difference. Even when I'm now rigorously trying to validate my ideas and stop
making hopeful shot in the dark guesses (reptitioin), I still fall prey to it
when there's external pressure. THe important thing isn't that you failed to do
perfactly this time, it's just to do a little liess shitty next time. 

## The Outro
The next time you're bashing up a two paragraph essay on why casework is terrible and removed from the site, maybe insetead consider how your e thinking isn't correct and how to change that inteasd :p 
